## Storing and Retrieving JSON with native Redis data types
JSON documents have been stored in Redis traditionally as serialized Strings prior to RedisJSON. This can be done on the client-side and the normal SET and GET behaviors would apply.  This is one solution, but there are some caveats.

Once serialized, the entire document must be retrieved to access any field within the JSON structure.  This can be a costly operation, as the entire document would be considerably larger than one of its fields. 

(Google Drawing of JSON document converting into a String)

Serialized JSON Documents cannot be updated by Redis String commands. The process of retrieving, deserializing, updating, re-serializing, then re-storing the document to update a single field would be considered an expensive set of operations for both Redis and the client application. 

(Drawing of JSON document converted into a Hash object with serialized lists and objects)

A more efficient solution than a String would be the Hash data type. Hashes store multiple field-value pairs at a single key.  Accessing Hash values is a constant-time complexity operation, so this is a valid solution. With hashes the JSON document must be one level deep;  hashes by design only store strings and numbers, so Lists and embedded objects are not available. 

(Collection of multiple Hashes and Lists with references to other Redis keys)

Using more of the native data types in Redis, Lists and Hashes could be created for a JSON document's nested objects. This would require multiple calls to Redis and the overhead required to marshall data into and out of these structures is an anti-pattern, as the goal of Redis is for speed and efficiency. 
